# To Do App

This is a simple To Do App done in React Native. At its core is the use of `FlatList` and `React.useState`, both of which are ideas central to the sort of apps we might be making. The app also makes extensive use of React Native Paper components for style and functionality expediency.

## Documentation
* [FlatList](https://reactnative.dev/docs/flatlist)
* [React.useState](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-state.html)
* [React Native Paper](https://reactnativepaper.com/)

## Functionality
### Fake Data
You can see at the top, after the crazy number of imports (not uncommon for React Apps), I have just faked some data to get us started. An array of objects would be pretty standard for JavaScript apps, and for most other environments. The shape of the data isn' particularly important, but each item having a unique identifier is. Here you can see I use a UUID library to generate unique ids. 

### Setting up `useState`
```javascript
const [todos, setTodos] = React.useState(DATA);
const [editDialogVisibile, setEditDialogVisible] = React.useState(false);
const [activeTodo, setActiveTodo] = React.useState(undefined);
``` 
These three lines set up various pieces of state our app needs to have. You can see that we declare two things when we make use of React.useState. The first is the variable name of the piece of state we are interested in, and the second is a function name we will use to update the state. The right hand side simply initializes the piece of state. 

The three pieces of state are: 

1. the list of todos. Iniitalized with the fake data. 
2. whether or not the dialogue box is visible. 
3. our active todo.  

### `createTodo`
This is a function that creates an new todo item and then immediate edits it. This is a somewhat standard pattern to solve this problem. 
