# To Do App 2.0

This builds on the previous todo app in some significant ways. For one, much of the work is split out into different files. There are three components– `TodoList`, `Todo`, and `Edit Dialogue`- a `theme` file, a `data` file, and a `store` file. 

The biggest changes are contained in the `store` file which makes use of a [Redux](https://redux.js.org/) style state management technique using [React hooks](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html). 

https://www.codementor.io/@nikhilkumaran/you-probably-don-t-need-redux-use-react-context-usereducer-hook-1jxkp6r116

## `store.js`

State management in an program with multiple components can be tricky. We have to constantly "lift" state out of child components, where it may not be logical _and_, most importantly, we struggle in cases where multiple components need to know about the same state. Redux, and the pattern it is an example of is a great solution to these problems. 

### `reducer`

A reducer takes the current state, an action, and produces a new state. 

> `(state, action) => newState`

The reducer function here is a big switch statement operating on the type of action. In some ways, the primary logic of the program is contained here. For instance, take the `addTodo` action type. 

```javascript
//...
//addTodo case
  const newTodo = {
    id: uuid.v4(),
    text: "enter text here",
    complete: false
  };
  return {
    ...state,
    activeID: newTodo.id,
    todos: [...state.todos, newTodo],
  };  
//... 
```
The operative part is the return statement. We return a new object representing the state. First, we use the spread operator on the existing state (`...state`), this creates a copy of the state. The rest of the fields of the object overwrite anything in the spread operator. In this, we update `activeID` and the list of todos by spreading out the original list, and adding the new todo to the end. (JavaScript trickery).

One key here is that we **do not modify the original state** but rather **create a new copy of the state**.

### Context

`const TodoListContext = React.createContext();`

This line creates an [`Context`](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) component. This component _provides_ access to values to all the child objects through a `Provider`. 

### Provider

The provider sets up the state to be provided. In this example, it probably would have been better to build a `UIStateProvider` and a `DataStateProvider`, but oh well. As you can see, we provide values and functionality through the value  object. This is effectively a mapping between what pieces of state the consumers will ask for through a statement like: 

`const {dialogueVisible} = React.useContext(TodoListContext);`

This gets the `dialogueVisible` value from the provider through the context. 

`const {setDialogueVisible} = React.useContext(TodoListContext);`

Whereas this gets the function so that we might call it. In this case, we are being redirected through the reducer based on the mapping in `value`.
